Duck Tracker User Documentation
Dennis Zipprich (dbz) - v1.0

Table of Contents
1 Introduction
2 Installation/Run
3 Normal Operation Mode
4 Manual Location Update
5 COVID-19 Facts
6 Viewing Collected Data
6.1 Viewing of Collected Data with Python Script


1. Introduction

Duck Tracker enables the user to allow location tracking via their Android
mobile device. This in turn allows the user to view anonymous aggregated data
collected by Duck Tracker.

Duck Tracker requires that a user must have a internet connected Android mobile
device. This mobile device may be connected via wifi or cellular data, and is
the only required hardware the user needs to run Duck Tracker.

Duck Tracker was designed to be lightweight and easy to use. With that design
philosophy in mind, our team implemented an easy to use and minimal application.
This documents will outline simple operations of Duck Tracker. 
 

2. Installation/Run

The following 4 steps are required to run Duck Tracker:

	1. The user must download the following files on to their phone:
		ducktracker.apk

		This file can be found at the following website:
			https://nhend.github.io/ducktracker/

		User must click on the link name "Download the Duck Tracker app"
				
	2. Once the user has downloaded the above file, the user must open the
	application on their mobile device.

	3. When the application is opened, data collection collections starts
	immediately with no prompt from the user.

	4. User must also keep the application open on their phone for continuous
	data gathering.


3. Normal Operation Mode (Passive Data Collection)

The following steps are needed for the user to access normal operation of Duck
Tracker. Since Duck Tracker was designed to be lightweight, normal operation is
defined as passive data collection mode.
	
	1. The user has completed Section 2, Installation/Run.
	
	2. User keeps Duck Tracker open for automatic data collection. If user's
	mobile device falls asleep or user closes out of application, Duck
	Tracker will not automatically gather geolocation data.

4. Manual Location Update

The following steps are required to manually update location in Duck Tracker.

	1. User has the app open on a mobile device.
	
	2. On lower part of display user selects input button labeled
	"Update Location".	
  
	3. Map on upper part of display is updated with current location using a
	pin representation.

5. COVID-19 Facts

Duck Tracker comes with a built functionality that displays COVID-19 facts and
best practices for users to stay informed about COVID-19 situations.

The following 5 steps are for accessing the COVID-19 Facts functionality:

	1. User has the app open on a mobile device.
	
	2. On the lower part of the display user selects an input button labeled
	"COVID-19 facts".
	
	3. Once user presses this button, this will take user to main display for
	COVID-19 facts. Users may now read one fact picked by the built in
	algorithm.

	4. If user wants to view another fact, user must press input button labeled
	"Next Fact", this will change the fact displayed on screen. User may repeat
	this step to view more facts, otherwise go to the next step.

	5. If user want to go back to main screen of Duck Tracker, user must press
	input button labeled "Back To Map". This will take the user to main screen
	of application 

6. Viewing of Collected Data

Duck Tracker enables the user to view anonymous data collected by all users. A
standard time interval of collection is every five(5) minutes.

The following 4 steps are for viewing aggregated data for users wanting to
casually view all data.

	1. User access internet connected device and opens up modern web
	browsing software.

	2. user navigates to the following website:
		https://nhend.github.io/ducktracker/

	3. From website user may view anonymous aggregated data collected
	organized by unique user id, time, latitude, and longitude. the user
	can view all data stored in the server. 
  
	4. Page 1 is the oldest data collected by Duck Tracker, and the last page
	is the most current data.

6.1 Viewing of Collected Data with Python Script

The Following 9 steps is for users that require data that is formatted for further
use. The data is stored as tab delimited format in a .txt file. Data is stored
in the following format:
	User I.D.\tDate\tTime\tLatitude\tLongitude\tTime at Location\n

	1. User access internet connected computer and opens up modern web
	browsing software.

        2. user navigates to the following website:
                https://nhend.github.io/ducktracker/	

	3. Click on the link name "Download the data conversion tool", to
	download the file named "ducktracker-convert.py".

	4. File will be saved into Downloads folder or specified folder.

	5. If user does not have Python3.0 installed on computer, visit: 
	https://www.python.org/downloads/

	6. Open BASH shell or equivalent and navigate to folder containing
	downloaded file specified in step 3.
	
	7. Execute command "python3 ./ducktracker-convert.py".

	8. A pop up will display, and the user will need to select the prompt.

	9. the user will then save the file into the selected folder.



